README.md, before:

# Toxic Comment Classifier (minimal)

This small project demonstrates:

- preprocessing of comment text
- building an exact-match lookup from your dataset
- training a multi-label classifier (One-vs-Rest LogisticRegression)
- a Flask web interface to classify new text

Files created:

- `src/preprocess.py` - normalization utilities
- `src/train.py` - training script (saves `models/model.joblib`)
- `src/predict.py` - loads model bundle and exposes `predict_text`
- `app.py` - minimal Flask UI
- `requirements.txt` - Python deps

Quick start (Windows PowerShell):

1. Create and activate a virtualenv (recommended):

```powershell
python -m venv .venv; .\.venv\Scripts\Activate.ps1
```

2. Install dependencies:

```powershell
pip install -r requirements.txt
```

3. Place your dataset at `data/comments.csv`. It must have columns:
   `comment_text,toxic,severe_toxic,obscene,threat,insult,identity_hate`

4. Train the model and build the exact-match lookup:

```powershell
python src/train.py
```

5. Run the Flask app:

```powershell
python app.py
```

6. Open http://127.0.0.1:5000 in your browser and enter a comment.

Behavior notes:

- If the normalized input exactly matches a normalized comment from your CSV, the app returns the labels from the CSV (exact-match lookup) — this respects your requirement to classify sentences according to the provided data first.
- If there is no exact match, the trained model is used to predict labels.

Next steps / improvements:

- Add model persistence path customization via env vars/CLI args.
- Add more preprocessing (lemmatization) if desired.
- Add unit tests and a small example `data/comments.csv` subset for smoke tests.

Commit message:

Switch to small sample data: add data/comments_sample.csv and data/README.md; prefer sample in training; stop tracking large data/comments.csv; update README and .gitignore

README.md, after:

# Toxic Comment Classifier (minimal)

This small project demonstrates:

- preprocessing of comment text
- building an exact-match lookup from your dataset
- training a multi-label classifier (One-vs-Rest LogisticRegression)
- a Flask web interface to classify new text

Files created:

- `src/preprocess.py` - normalization utilities
- `src/train.py` - training script (saves `models/model.joblib`)
- `src/predict.py` - loads model bundle and exposes `predict_text`
- `app.py` - minimal Flask UI
- `requirements.txt` - Python deps

Quick start (Windows PowerShell):

1. Create and activate a virtualenv (recommended):

```powershell
python -m venv .venv; .\.venv\Scripts\Activate.ps1
```

2. Install dependencies:

```powershell
pip install -r requirements.txt
```

3. A tiny sample dataset is provided at `data/comments_sample.csv` for smoke tests.
   If you have a full dataset, place it anywhere (e.g. `data/comments.csv`, which is git-ignored) with columns:
   `comment_text,toxic,severe_toxic,obscene,threat,insult,identity_hate`.

4. Train the model and build the exact-match lookup (by default uses `data/comments_sample.csv` if it exists):

```powershell
# default (prefers sample):
python src/train.py

# explicitly choose a CSV:
python src/train.py --csv data/comments_sample.csv
python src/train.py --csv data/comments.csv

# or via env var:
$env:DATA_CSV_PATH = "data/comments.csv"; python src/train.py
```

5. Run the Flask app:

```powershell
python app.py
```

6. Open http://127.0.0.1:5000 in your browser and enter a comment.

Behavior notes:

- If the normalized input exactly matches a normalized comment from your CSV, the app returns the labels from the CSV (exact-match lookup) — this respects your requirement to classify sentences according to the provided data first.
- If there is no exact match, the trained model is used to predict labels.

Data notes:

- The repo tracks only small samples to keep it lightweight.
- Place your large/full dataset locally (e.g., under `data/`) — it will be ignored by git.

Next steps / improvements:

- Add model persistence path customization via env vars/CLI args.
- Add more preprocessing (lemmatization) if desired.
- Add unit tests and keep the sample small but representative for smoke tests.
